Project Members-

Introduction to TensorFlow using Python
Shiwen (Gigi) Wang: jingjingwsw@gmail.com
Zhicheng (Jason) Xue: emailxjason@gmail.com


Data source-
https://www.kaggle.com/wendykan/lending-club-loan-data/data

Dataset Description-
LendingClub is the world’s largest peer-to-peer lending company, 
and it was the first peer-to-peer lender to register its offerings as securities with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The dataset includes information on all loans issued from 2007 to 2015. 
The data consists of information on the lenders (“ability-to-pay” metrics such as credit score, 
length of employment, finance inquiries) as well as the loans themselves 
(loan status, loan amount, loan term, interest rate). 
The dataset includes ~890,000 observations and 75 variables. 

Why we chose this project-
We chose this project because the correlations between lending habits and loan characteristics is an interesting topic. 
For instance, do people default on their loans because they take out too much, because they come from lower-income backgrounds, 
or both? Do we see different lending habits in different geographical regions? These are questions we wish to explore.
Furthermore, the predictive aspect of this project is powerful. 
We can help LendingClub identify potential risky borrowers and make corresponding adjustment on payment schedule, 
loan pricing and capital reserve strategy. 

Goals (what we want to solve) & Project Plan (how we intend to solve it)- 
Our goal is to build predictive models by using TensorFlow. 
We will use LendingClub’s latest loan payment information, 
credit bureau information and other demographic information to 
predict whether a borrower will make an on-time loan payment. 
The outcome or target variable is a binary discrete variable with 1 represent any 
type of late payment/collection and 0 represent on-time payment or paid off. 
This is a binary classification supervised learning problem. 
Our plan is to fit logistic regression (regular machine learning technique) 
and CNN/RNN (deep learning algorithm) to compare the accuracy of the models. 

Final deliverable-
The outcome will be data exploration, visualization, and statistical analysis using pandas/matplotlib, 
as well as a set of machine learning and deep learning models by using tensorflow to make predictions. 
